Troubleshooting: Notes on Jinja2 and Startup config logs (#735)
cylc/cylc-doc: src/user-guide/troubleshooting.rst

   These files can allow you to see how the configuration was changed between
   restarts and reloads.

   Each time a workflow is

   * Played for the first time
   * Played from stopped
   * Reloaded

   the configuration used is recorded in a file in ``log/config``.
   This provides a series of snapshots of the configuration.
   These files are named:

>    ``<LOG FILE NUMBER>-<EVENT>-<RESTART NUMBER>``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ``<LOG FILE NUMBER>-<EVENT>-<(RE)START NUMBER>``.
```

   .. cylc-scope::

> .. note::

Reviewer: IMO try to avoid repeated admonitions of the same type

```suggestion
.. tip::
```

please let us know.

Debugging Workflow Configurations
---------------------------------

> Cylc Debugging Utilites
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: ```suggestion
Cylc Debugging Utilities
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
```

.. seealso::

   :ref:`user-guide.cheat_sheet`

> Cylc comes with a number of utilies designed to allow inspection of

Author: ```suggestion
Cylc comes with a number of utilities designed to allow inspection of
```

please let us know.

Debugging Workflow Configurations
---------------------------------

Cylc Debugging Utilites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. seealso::

   :ref:`user-guide.cheat_sheet`

Cylc comes with a number of utilies designed to allow inspection of
workflows:

``cylc view``
   Prints workflow configurations before full parsing by Cylc. This
   can include :ref:`Jinja2 <troubleshooting.jinja2>` (use ``-j``)
   or Empy template processing.

   Include files can be inlined (use ``-i``).

``cylc config``
   Prints workflow configuration after Cylc has parsed the runtime

>    configuration. For example:

Reviewer 2: Worth highlighting the main use case - expanding inheritance.

   .. code-block:: cylc

      [runtime]
          [[root]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
          [[FAMILY]]
              pre-script = sleep 15
          [[foo, bar]]
              script = echo 'Hello'
          [[bar]]
              inherit = FAMILY
              post-script = echo 'World'

   would be shown as (revealing in this example why task ``bar``
   always fails):

   .. code-block:: cylc

      [runtime]
          [[root]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
          [[FAMILY]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
              pre-script = sleep 15
          [[foo]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
              script = echo 'Hello'
          [[bar]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
              pre-script = sleep 15
              script = echo 'Hello'
              inherit = FAMILY
              post-script = echo 'World'

``cylc lint``
   #. Checks the config against the :ref:`style_guide`.
   #. Looks for deprecated Cylc 7 configurations and recommends
      Cylc 8 configurations to replace them.

   .. seealso::

      :ref:`cylc_lint_script`

``cylc validate``

>    Validate a workflow configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Validates the workflow configuration.
```

   .. seealso::

      :ref:`Validation`

.. _troubleshooting.jinja2:

See what the Jinja2 is doing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Sometimes understanding what Jinja2 templating is doing
> to a workflow configuration can be difficult.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can sometimes be difficult to understand what Jinja2
templating is doing to a workflow configuration.
```

please let us know.

Debugging Workflow Configurations
---------------------------------

Cylc Debugging Utilites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. seealso::

   :ref:`user-guide.cheat_sheet`

Cylc comes with a number of utilies designed to allow inspection of
workflows:

``cylc view``
   Prints workflow configurations before full parsing by Cylc. This
   can include :ref:`Jinja2 <troubleshooting.jinja2>` (use ``-j``)
   or Empy template processing.

   Include files can be inlined (use ``-i``).

``cylc config``

>    Prints workflow configuration after Cylc has parsed the runtime
>    configuration.
> 
>    It is useful because it shows you how inheritance is expanded -
>    for example:

Reviewer 3: It's not just "the runtime configuration".

```suggestion
   Prints all or part of the workflow configuration after Cylc has parsed the file
   and expanded the runtime inheritance hierarchy. For example:
```

   .. code-block:: cylc

      [runtime]
          [[root]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
          [[FAMILY]]
              pre-script = sleep 15
          [[foo, bar]]
              script = echo 'Hello'
          [[bar]]
              inherit = FAMILY
              post-script = echo 'World'

   would be shown as (revealing in this example why task ``bar``
   always fails):

   .. code-block:: cylc

      [runtime]
          [[root]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
          [[FAMILY]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
              pre-script = sleep 15
          [[foo]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
              script = echo 'Hello'
          [[bar]]
              execution time limit = PT5S
              pre-script = sleep 15
              script = echo 'Hello'
              inherit = FAMILY
              post-script = echo 'World'

``cylc lint``
   #. Checks the config against the :ref:`style_guide`.

>    #. Looks deprecated Cylc 7 configurations and recommends

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   #. Looks for deprecated Cylc 7 configurations and recommends
```

please let us know.

Debugging Workflow Configurations
---------------------------------

Cylc Debugging Utilites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> .. TODO Add cheatsheet link here

Reviewer 2: TODO

   Include files can be inlined (use ``-i``).

``cylc config``
   Prints workflow configuration after Cylc has parsed the runtime
   configuration. For example:

   .. code-block:: cylc

      [runtime]
          [[foo, bar]]
              script = echo 'Hello'
          [[bar]]
              post-script = echo 'World'

   would be shown as:

   .. code-block:: cylc

      [runtime]
          [[root]]
          [[foo]]
              script = echo 'Hello'
          [[bar]]
              script = echo 'Hello'
              post-script = echo 'World'

``cylc lint``
   #. Checks the config against the :ref:`style_guide`.
   #. Looks deprecated Cylc 7 configurations and recommends
      Cylc 8 configurations to replace them.

   .. seealso::

      :ref:`cylc_lint_script`

``cylc validate``

   Validate a workflow configuration.

   .. seealso::

      :ref:`Validation`

.. _troubleshooting.jinja2:

See what the Jinja2 is doing
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Sometimes understanding what Jinja2 templating is doing
to a workflow configuration can be difficult.

``cylc view --process`` (or ``-p``) shows you what the
configuration will look like after Jinja2 processing.

For example:

> .. code-block:: jinja2

Reviewer 2: ```
/home/runner/work/cylc-doc/cylc-doc/src/user-guide/troubleshooting.rst:572: WARNING: Pygments lexer name 'jinja2' is not known
```
